{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2707
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green0\blue236;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000\c0;\cssrgb\c11104\c11369\c94281;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13300\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \cb3 Description of Wave Data:\
yr (Year) - Year that the data was collected\
mo (Month) - Month that the data was collected\
dy (Day) - Day that the data was collected\
hr (Hour) - Hour that the data was collected\
mn (Minute) - Minute that the data was collected\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 WDIR
\b0 \
Wind direction (the direction the wind is coming from in degrees clockwise from true N) during the same period used for WSPD
\b \

\b0 \

\b WSPD
\b0 \
Wind speed (m/s) averaged over an eight-minute period for buoys and a two-minute period for land stations. Reported Hourly\

\b \
GST
\b0 \
Peak 5 or 8 second gust speed (m/s) measured during the eight-minute or two-minute period. The 5 or 8 second period can be determined by payload\

\b \
WVHT
\b0 \
Significant wave height (meters) is calculated as the average of the highest one-third of all of the wave heights during the 20-minute sampling period\

\b \
DPD
\b0 \
Dominant wave period (seconds) is the period with the maximum wave energy\

\b \
APD
\b0 \
Average wave period (seconds) of all waves during the 20-minute period\

\b \
MWD
\b0 \
The direction from which the waves at the dominant period (DPD) are coming. The units are degrees from true North, increasing clockwise, with North as 0 (zero) degrees and East as 90 degrees\

\b \
PRES
\b0 \
Sea level pressure (hPa). For C-MAN sites and Great Lakes buoys, the recorded pressure is reduced to sea level using the method described in\'a0NWS Technical Procedures Bulletin 291\'a0(11/14/80). ( labeled BAR in Historical files)\

\b \
ATMP
\b0 \
Air temperature (Celsius)\

\b \
WTMP
\b0 \
Sea surface temperature (Celsius). For buoys the depth is referenced to the hull's waterline. For fixed platforms it varies with tide, but is referenced to, or near\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/datum_options.html#MLLW"}}{\fldrslt \strokec4 Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW)}}.\

\b \
DEWP
\b0 \
Dewpoint temperature taken at the same height as the air temperature measurement.\

\b \
VIS
\b0 \
Station visibility (nautical miles). Note that buoy stations are limited to reports from 0 to 1.6 nmi.\

\b \
PTDY
\b0 \
Pressure Tendency is the direction (plus or minus) and the amount of pressure change (hPa)for a three hour period ending at the time of observation. (not in Historical files)\

\b \
TIDE
\b0 \
The water level in feet above or below\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://tidesandcurrents.noaa.gov/datum_options.html#MLLW"}}{\fldrslt \strokec4 Mean Lower Low Water (MLLW)}}\
}